“Tar Heels celebrate ACC Tournament championship
It will probably not surprise you to learn that when Joel James wins an Atlantic
Coast Conference championship, he does not take small souvenirs.
That explains, then, why the Tar Heel senior was walking around the UNC locker
room asking his teammates to autograph a 2016 ACC Tournament Championship
sign that was the size of a backboard.
Literally. It was the size of a backboard. Because that’s where James had gotten
it.
“It was on the backboard when we were cutting the net,” James said. “And Brice
was hogging the net, so I said, ‘I’m going to take something, and I think I’m going
to take that sign.’”
So he did. “It was bolted on there,” James said with those wide eyes, “but I just
took it.”
That half-hour after Carolina wins any sort of a title takes months and months to
achieve and then happens in a series of snapshots that go by much too quickly.
The game was torture. The 61-57 win over a game Virginia squad felt every bit
like a Final Four contest.
Washington doesn’t really care about the ACC Tournament, and the Verizon
Center neighborhood is a little sketchy, and our cab driver actually said, “Is Duke
still in it?” on Saturday, but it remains a pretty perfect place to have a CarolinaVirginia
ACC championship game. The crowd was split almost evenly in half,
meaning every basket, every turnover (there were too many of those), every
defensive stop was greeted with a huge roar.
We stood for most of the final minutes. At one point, the gentleman in front of
me, who was of the age that he probably saw Lennie Rosenbluth play in person,
turned to walk up the aisle in a one-possession game late in the second half.
“You can’t leave now!” his seatmate told him.
“Yes I can,” he said. “It’s time for a good luck pee.”
And I’m not saying it worked or didn’t work, but right after that Justin Jackson
intercepted a pass and sprinted down the court and dunked it, and don’t you ever
doubt the power of timely restroom breaks.
All of it—Marcus Paige’s incredible defense, Joel Berry’s timely shooting, Isaiah
Hicks’ crashes to the basket—ended with red, white and blue shiny confetti being
fired from the arena rafters. Thousands of strands of it, some eventually being
worn like a cape by Kennedy Meeks. The scene on the court was pure joy, one of
the very few times that this particular group has truly been able to relax and enjoy
an accomplishment and not worry about anything other than what they just
achieved.
You think it’s a big deal? Even Sean May, who has some hardware in his trophy
case, was impressed. “I had to tell Brice thank you for this one,” he said as he
held his piece of the net. “I don’t have one of these.”
Johnson was standing across the court with his long arms wrapped around the
ACC championship trophy. “I need someone to hold this,” he said. He had other
things to do—there was another net to cut.
“That whole moment of being out there on the court celebrating was a dream
come true,” said Theo Pinson. “I wish I could keep replaying it and replaying it.
It was something I will never ever forget. I don’t think it’s really hit anybody yet.
Maybe Coach, because he has done it before.”
Maybe Pinson is right. But watching Roy Williams celebrate with his team,
turning his hat sideways and lighting up in a big grin, you got the distinct
impression that wins like this never, ever get old. It was hard to tell who on the
podium was a 20-year-old and who was twice that. As the players were
individually announced to receive their championship trophy, the first person to
greet them was assistant coach Hubert Davis, hat cocked to the side, enormous
smile on his face, hug awaiting.
It’s the kind of scene you watch and then you realize your face is hurting because
you’ve been smiling without even realizing it. Imagine what it’s like to live it
